Perception is influenced by
the perceptual set, context,
motivation, and emotion.
@
Perceptual set, or perceptual expectancy,
is the tendency to perceive things based
on past experiences or expectations.
For example, preschool
children believe
burgers taste better when
served in a McDonald's bag
than in a plain white bag.
Perception is also influenced
by stereotypes about culture,
ethnicity, gender identity,
sexual orientation, income, age,
and ability levels
in everyday life.
Context plays a role
in shaping perceptions.
For example, drivers
tend to dislike
pedestrians' leisurely
pace, while pedestrians tend
to dislike drivers' impatience.
Motivation affects perception.
For example, climbing a
mountain with a heavy backpack
feels harder if the climber has less
motivation to get to the top.
@
But, a motivation to
watch a beautiful sunset
from the mountain top makes
one move faster ignoring
the discomfort.
Emotions, too, can
drive perceptions
in different directions.
For instance, hearing sad
music can lead to interpreting
homophonic words with
a sadder meaning,
such as hearing "mourning"
instead of "morning."
@